[InferenceClient] Update inference documentation (#2776)
huggingface/huggingface_hub: docs/source/en/guides/inference.md

# Run Inference on servers

Inference is the process of using a trained model to make predictions on new data. Because this process can be compute-intensive, running on a dedicated or external service can be an interesting option.  
The `huggingface_hub`  library provides a unified interface to run inference across multiple services for models hosted on the Hugging Face Hub:
1.  [Inference API](https://huggingface.co/docs/api-inference/index): a serverless solution that allows you to run accelerated inference on Hugging Face's infrastructure for free. This service is a fast way to get started, test different models, and prototype AI products.

> 2. Third-party providers: various serverless solution provided by external providers (Together, Sambanova, etc.). These providers offer production-ready APIs on a pay-a-you-go model. This is the fastest way to integrate AI in your products with a maintenance-free and scalable solution. Refer to the [Supported providers and tasks](#supported-providers-and-tasks) section for a list of supported providers.      

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. [Third-party providers](#supported-providers-and-tasks): various serverless solution provided by external providers (Together, Sambanova, etc.). These providers offer production-ready APIs on a pay-a-you-go model. This is the fastest way to integrate AI in your products with a maintenance-free and scalable solution. Refer to the [Supported providers and tasks](#supported-providers-and-tasks) section for a list of supported providers.      
```
link this too for visual symmetry lol

3. [Inference Endpoints](https://huggingface.co/docs/inference-endpoints/index): a product to easily deploy models to production. Inference is run by Hugging Face in a dedicated, fully managed infrastructure on a cloud provider of your choice.

These services can be called with the [`InferenceClient`] object. It acts as a replacement for the legacy

> [`InferenceApi`] client, adding specific support for tasks and third-party providers.

Reviewer: in the future we could remove the mention of the legacy client given it's so old at this point

```python
>>> from huggingface_hub import InferenceClient

> # Example with a custom provider (e.g. replicate)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Example with an external provider (e.g. replicate)
```

>>> replicate_client = InferenceClient(
    provider="replicate",
    api_key="my_replicate_api_key",
)
>>> replicate_image = replicate_client.text_to_image(
    "A flying car crossing a futuristic cityscape.",
    model="black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-schnell",
)
>>> replicate_image.save("flying_car.png")

```

In the example above, we initialized an [`InferenceClient`] with a third-party provider, [Replicate](https://replicate.com/). When using a provider, you must specify the model you want to use. The model id must be the id of the model on the Hugging Face Hub, not the id of the model from the third-party provider.
In our example, we generated an image from a text prompt. The returned value is a `PIL.Image` object that can be saved to a file. For more details, check out the [`~InferenceClient.text_to_image`] documentation.

> Let's now see an example using the [~`InferenceClient.chat_completion`] API. This task uses an LLM to generate a response from a list of messages:

Reviewer: FYI here the backtick and the tilde are reversed, i'll push a fix

```python
>>> from huggingface_hub import InferenceClient
>>> messages = [
    {
        "role": "user",
        "content": "What is the capital of France?",
    }
]
>>> client = InferenceClient(
    provider="together",
    model="meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct",
    api_key="my_together_api_key",
)
>>> client.chat_completion(messages, max_tokens=100)

> >>> ChatCompletionOutput(

Author: correct!

Let's now see an example using the [~`InferenceClient.chat_completion`] API. This task uses an LLM to generate a response from a list of messages:

```python
>>> from huggingface_hub import InferenceClient
>>> messages = [
    {
        "role": "user",
        "content": "What is the capital of France?",
    }
]
>>> client = InferenceClient(
    provider="together",
    model="meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct",
    api_key="my_together_api_key",
)
>>> client.chat_completion(messages, max_tokens=100)
>>> ChatCompletionOutput(
    choices=[
        ChatCompletionOutputComplete(
            finish_reason="eos_token",
            index=0,
            message=ChatCompletionOutputMessage(
                role="assistant", content="The capital of France is Paris.", name=None, tool_calls=None
            ),
            logprobs=None,
        )
    ],
    created=1719907176,
    id="",
    model="meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct",
    object="text_completion",
    system_fingerprint="2.0.4-sha-f426a33",
    usage=ChatCompletionOutputUsage(completion_tokens=8, prompt_tokens=17, total_tokens=25),
)
```

> In the example above, we used a third-party provider ("together") and specified which model we want to use (`"meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct"`). We then gave a list of messages to complete (here, a single question) and passed an additional parameter to the API (`max_token=100`). The output is a `ChatCompletionOutput` object that follows the OpenAI specification. The generated content can be accessed with `output.choices[0].message.content`. For more details, check out the [`~InferenceClient.chat_completion`] documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the example above, we used a third-party provider ([Together AI](https://www.together.ai/)) and specified which model we want to use (`"meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct"`). We then gave a list of messages to complete (here, a single question) and passed an additional parameter to the API (`max_token=100`). The output is a `ChatCompletionOutput` object that follows the OpenAI specification. The generated content can be accessed with `output.choices[0].message.content`. For more details, check out the [`~InferenceClient.chat_completion`] documentation.
```

all the parameters available for each task.

</Tip>

> ### Using a specific provider

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

### Using a specific provider
```

> If you want to use a specific provider, you can specify it when initializing the client, the default provider is "hf-inference", the Hugging Face Serverless Inference API.
> Refer to the [Supported provider and tasks](#supported-provider-and-tasks) section for a list of supported providers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to use a specific provider, you can specify it when initializing the client,. The default provider is "hf-inference", the Hugging Face Serverless Inference API. Refer to the [Supported providers and tasks](#supported-providers-and-tasks) section for a list of supported providers.
```

<Tip>

> When using the default provider (i.e.Hugging Face Inference API), each task comes with a recommended model from the 200k+ models available on the Hub. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When using the Hugging Face Inference API (default provider), each task comes with a recommended model from the 200k+ models available on the Hub. 
```

>>> client.text_to_image(..., model="https://uu149rez6gw9ehej.eu-west-1.aws.endpoints.huggingface.cloud/deepfloyd-if")
```

Note that you cannot specify both a URL and a provider - they are mutually exclusive. URLs are used to connect directly to deployed endpoints.

### Authentication

Authentication depends on which provider you are using:

1. For the default Hugging Face Inference API, you can authenticate using a [User Access Token](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/security-tokens):

```python
>>> from huggingface_hub import InferenceClient
>>> client = InferenceClient(token="hf_***")
```

By default, it will use the token saved on your machine if you are logged in (see [how to authenticate](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/quick-start#authentication)).

2. For third-party providers, you have two options:

**Direct access to provider**: Use your own API key to interact directly with the provider's service:
```python
>>> client = InferenceClient(
    provider="replicate",
    api_key="r8_****"  # Your Replicate API key
)
```

> **Proxied through Hugging Face** : Use Hugging Face as a proxy to access third-party providers. Simply specify

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Routed through Hugging Face** : Use Hugging Face as a proxy to access third-party providers. Simply specify
```

note that we say "routed" on the Hub (it's ok to use both, but as a "header" i would keep Routed)

```

By default, it will use the token saved on your machine if you are logged in (see [how to authenticate](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/quick-start#authentication)).

2. For third-party providers, you have two options:

**Direct access to provider**: Use your own API key to interact directly with the provider's service:
```python
>>> client = InferenceClient(
    provider="replicate",
    api_key="r8_****"  # Your Replicate API key
)
```

**Proxied through Hugging Face** : Use Hugging Face as a proxy to access third-party providers. Simply specify
your Hugging Face token and the provider you want to use. The calls will be routed through Hugging Face's infrastructure
using our provider keys, and the usage will be billed directly to your Hugging Face account:
```python
>>> client = InferenceClient(
    provider="replicate",
    token="hf_****"  # Your HF token 
)
```

<Tip>

Authentication is NOT mandatory when using the Hugging Face Inference API. However, authenticated users get a higher 
free-tier to play with the service. Token is also mandatory if you want to run inference on your private models or 
on private endpoints.

> </Tip>

Reviewer 2: I would remove this Tip altogether (quite outdated). I think InferenceAPI requires authentication now (or very very limited free-tier) and running InferenceAPI on private models is disabled.

</Tip>

## Supported providers and tasks

[`InferenceClient`]'s goal is to provide the easiest interface to run inference on Hugging Face models. It has a simple API that supports the most common tasks. Here is a table showing which providers support which tasks:

> | Domain          | Task                                                                                                                                             | HF Inference | Replicate | fal-ai | Sambanova | Together | Documentation                             |
> |-----------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------|-----------|---------|-----------|-----------|-------------------------------------------|
> | **Audio**       | Audio Classification                                                                                                                              | ✅           | ❌         | ❌       | ❌         | ❌         | [`~InferenceClient.audio_classification`]  |
> |                 | Audio-to-Audio                                                                                                                                    | ✅           | ❌         | ❌       | ❌         | ❌         | [`~InferenceClient.audio_to_audio`]        |
> |                 | Automatic Speech Recognition                                                                                                                      | ✅           | ❌         | ✅       | ❌         | ❌         | [`~InferenceClient.automatic_speech_recognition`] |
> |                 | Text-to-Speech                                                                                                                                    | ✅           | ❌         | ❌       | ❌         | ❌         | [`~InferenceClient.text_to_speech`]        |
> | **Computer Vision** | Image Classification                                                                                                                         | ✅           | ❌         | ❌       | ❌         | ❌         | [`~InferenceClient.image_classification`]  |
> |                 | Image Segmentation                                                                                                                                | ✅           | ❌         | ❌       | ❌         | ❌         | [`~InferenceClient.image_segmentation`]    |
> |                 | Image-to-Image                                                                                                                                    | ✅           | ❌         | ❌       | ❌         | ❌         | [`~InferenceClient.image_to_image`]        |
> |                 | Image-to-Text                                                                                                                                     | ✅           | ❌         | ❌       | ❌         | ❌         | [`~InferenceClient.image_to_text`]         |
> |                 | Object Detection                                                                                                                                  | ✅           | ❌         | ❌       | ❌         | ❌         | [`~InferenceClient.object_detection`]      |
> |                 | Text-to-Image                                                                                                                                     | ✅           | ✅         | ✅       | ❌         | ✅         | [`~InferenceClient.text_to_image`]         |
> |                 | Zero-Shot-Image-Classification                                                                                                                    | ✅           | ❌         | ❌       | ❌         | ❌         | [`~InferenceClient.zero_shot_image_classification`] |
> | **Multimodal**  | Documentation Question Answering                                                                                                                 | ✅           | ❌         | ❌       | ❌         | ❌         | [`~InferenceClient.document_question_answering`] |
> |                 | Visual Question Answering                                                                                                                         | ✅           | ❌         | ❌       | ❌         | ❌         | [`~InferenceClient.visual_question_answering`] |
> | **NLP**         | Chat Completion                                                                                                                                  | ✅           | ❌         | ❌       | ✅         | ✅         | [`~InferenceClient.chat_completion`]       |
> |                 | Feature Extraction                                                                                                                                | ✅           | ❌         | ❌       | ❌         | ❌         | [`~InferenceClient.feature_extraction`]    |
> |                 | Fill Mask                                                                                                                                         | ✅           | ❌         | ❌       | ❌         | ❌         | [`~InferenceClient.fill_mask`]            |
> |                 | Question Answering                                                                                                                                | ✅           | ❌         | ❌       | ❌         | ❌         | [`~InferenceClient.question_answering`]    |
> |                 | Sentence Similarity                                                                                                                               | ✅           | ❌         | ❌       | ❌         | ❌         | [`~InferenceClient.sentence_similarity`]   |
> |                 | Summarization                                                                                                                                     | ✅           | ❌         | ❌       | ❌         | ❌         | [`~InferenceClient.summarization`]         |
> |                 | Table Question Answering                                                                                                                          | ✅           | ❌         | ❌       | ❌         | ❌         | [`~InferenceClient.table_question_answering`] |
> |                 | Text Classification                                                                                                                               | ✅           | ❌         | ❌       | ❌         | ❌         | [`~InferenceClient.text_classification`]   |
> |                 | Text Generation                                                                                                                                   | ✅           | ❌         | ❌       | ❌         | ✅         | [`~InferenceClient.text_generation`]       |
> |                 | Token Classification                                                                                                                              | ✅           | ❌         | ❌       | ❌         | ❌         | [`~InferenceClient.token_classification`]  |
> |                 | Translation                                                                                                                                       | ✅           | ❌         | ❌       | ❌         | ❌         | [`~InferenceClient.translation`]           |
> |                 | Zero Shot Classification                                                                                                                          | ✅           | ❌         | ❌       | ❌         | ❌         | [`~InferenceClient.zero_shot_classification`] |
> | **Tabular**     | Tabular Classification                                                                                                                           | ✅           | ❌         | ❌       | ❌         | ❌         | [`~InferenceClient.tabular_classification`] |
> |                 | Tabular Regression                                                                                                                                | ✅           | ❌         | ❌       | ❌         | ❌         | [`~InferenceClient.tabular_regression`]    |

Reviewer 2: To squeeze a bit the table, what do you think to remove the "documentation" table and move the references like `[`~InferenceClient.audio_classification`]` to the task column? Feels like we don't loose much information and it gives more space to add providers in the future.

See current table at https://moon-ci-docs.huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/pr_2776/en/guides/inference#supported-providers-and-tasks 

```suggestion
| Domain              | Task                                                | HF Inference | Replicate | fal-ai | Sambanova | Together | Documentation |
| ------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- | ------------ | --------- | ------ | --------- | -------- | ------------- |
| **Audio**           | [`~InferenceClient.audio_classification`]           | ✅            | ❌         | ❌      | ❌         | ❌        |
|                     | [`~InferenceClient.audio_to_audio`]                 | ✅            | ❌         | ❌      | ❌         | ❌        |
|                     | [`~InferenceClient.automatic_speech_recognition`]   | ✅            | ❌         | ✅      | ❌         | ❌        |
|                     | [`~InferenceClient.text_to_speech`]                 | ✅            | ❌         | ❌      | ❌         | ❌        |
| **Computer Vision** | [`~InferenceClient.image_classification`]           | ✅            | ❌         | ❌      | ❌         | ❌        |
|                     | [`~InferenceClient.image_segmentation`]             | ✅            | ❌         | ❌      | ❌         | ❌        |
|                     | [`~InferenceClient.image_to_image`]                 | ✅            | ❌         | ❌      | ❌         | ❌        |
|                     | [`~InferenceClient.image_to_text`]                  | ✅            | ❌         | ❌      | ❌         | ❌        |
|                     | [`~InferenceClient.object_detection`]               | ✅            | ❌         | ❌      | ❌         | ❌        |
|                     | [`~InferenceClient.text_to_image`]                  | ✅            | ✅         | ✅      | ❌         | ✅        |
|                     | [`~InferenceClient.zero_shot_image_classification`] | ✅            | ❌         | ❌      | ❌         | ❌        |
| **Multimodal**      | [`~InferenceClient.document_question_answering`]    | ✅            | ❌         | ❌      | ❌         | ❌        |
|                     | [`~InferenceClient.visual_question_answering`]      | ✅            | ❌         | ❌      | ❌         | ❌        |
| **NLP**             | [`~InferenceClient.chat_completion`]                | ✅            | ❌         | ❌      | ✅         | ✅        |
|                     | [`~InferenceClient.feature_extraction`]             | ✅            | ❌         | ❌      | ❌         | ❌        |
|                     | [`~InferenceClient.fill_mask`]                      | ✅            | ❌         | ❌      | ❌         | ❌        |
|                     | [`~InferenceClient.question_answering`]             | ✅            | ❌         | ❌      | ❌         | ❌        |
|                     | [`~InferenceClient.sentence_similarity`]            | ✅            | ❌         | ❌      | ❌         | ❌        |
|                     | [`~InferenceClient.summarization`]                  | ✅            | ❌         | ❌      | ❌         | ❌        |
|                     | [`~InferenceClient.table_question_answering`]       | ✅            | ❌         | ❌      | ❌         | ❌        |
|                     | [`~InferenceClient.text_classification`]            | ✅            | ❌         | ❌      | ❌         | ❌        |
|                     | [`~InferenceClient.text_generation`]                | ✅            | ❌         | ❌      | ❌         | ✅        |
|                     | [`~InferenceClient.token_classification`]           | ✅            | ❌         | ❌      | ❌         | ❌        |
|                     | [`~InferenceClient.translation`]                    | ✅            | ❌         | ❌      | ❌         | ❌        |
|                     | [`~InferenceClient.zero_shot_classification`]       | ✅            | ❌         | ❌      | ❌         | ❌        |
| **Tabular**         | [`~InferenceClient.tabular_classification`]         | ✅            | ❌         | ❌      | ❌         | ❌        |
|                     | [`~InferenceClient.tabular_regression`]             | ✅            | ❌         | ❌      | ❌         | ❌        |
```

</Tip>

> ## Supported provider and tasks

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Supported providers and tasks
```

Reviewer 2: + can you add a redirection rule in [_redirects.yml](https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface_hub/blob/main/docs/source/en/_redirects.yml) ?Something like

```
guides/inference#supported-tasks: guides/inference#supported-providers-and-tasks
```
